node-uuid
=========

Asynchronous, non-blocking Node.js binding for libuuid, used to generate universally unique identifiers.

The UUIDs generated by this library can be reasonably expected to be unique within a system, and unique across all systems.

The Node.JS representation of a UUID is a Buffer with the length 16.

# API

**clear(UUID uu)**  
Sets the value of the supplied uuid variable uu to the NULL value.

**compare(UUID uu1, UUID uu2)**  
Compares the two supplied uuid variables uu1 and uu2 to each other.  
Returns an integer less than, equal to, or greater than zero if uu1 is found, respectively, to be lexigraphically less than, equal, or greater than uu2.

**copy(UUID uu)**  
Returns a copy if the UUID variable.

**generate()**  
Returns a new universally unique identifier (UUID). The uuid will be generated based on high-quality randomness from /dev/urandom, if available. If it is not available, then uuid_generate will use an alternative algorithm which uses the current time, the local ethernet MAC address (if available), and random data generated using a pseudo-random generator.

**generate_random()**  
Returns a new universally unique identifier (UUID). This method forces the use of the all-random UUID format, even if a high-quality random number generator (i.e., /dev/urandom) is not available, in which case a pseudo-random generator will be substituted. Note that the use of a pseudo-random generator may compromise the uniqueness of UUIDs generated in this fashion.

**generate_time()**  
Returns a new universally unique identifier (UUID). This method forces the use of the alternative algorithm which uses the current time and the local ethernet MAC address (if available). This algorithm used to be the default one used to generate UUID, but because of the use of the ethernet MAC address, it can leak information about when and where the UUID was generated. This can cause privacy problems in some applications.

**is_null(UUID uu)**  
Returns wether the supplied UUID variable is equal to the NULL UUID.

**time(UUID uu)**  
Returns a Date object which contains the time at which the supplied time-based UUID uu was created. Note that the UUID creation time is only encoded within certain types of UUIDs. This function can only reasonably expect to extract the creation time for UUIDs created with the generate_time function.

**parse(String str)**  
Returns the UUID converted from the UUID string. The input UUID is a string of the form 1b4e28ba-2fa1-11d2-883f-b9a761bde3fb, with the length 36.

**unparse(UUID uu)**  
Returns a string representation of the supplied UUID. The case of the hex digits may be upper or lower case, and is dependent on the system-dependent local default.

**unparse_lower(UUID uu)**  
Returns a string representation of the supplied UUID. The hex digits are lower case.

**unparse_upper(UUID uu)**  
Returns a string representation of the supplied UUID. The hex digits are upper case.

**generate_string_lower()**  
Returns a new universally unique identifier (UUID) string representation. Is the equivalent of unparse_lower(generate()).

**generate_string_upper()**  
Returns a new universally unique identifier (UUID) string representation. Is the equivalent of unparse_upper(generate()).

